Suggested clarifications for Source Code Tools page (#482)
OWASP/www-community: pages/Source_Code_Analysis_Tools.md

title: Source Code Analysis Tools
author: 
contributors: 
  - Dave Wichers, itamarlavender, will-obrien, Eitan Worcel, Prabhu Subramanian, kingthorin, coadaflorin, hblankenship, GovorovViva64, pfhorman, GouveaHeitor, Clint Gibler, DSotnikov, Ajin Abraham, Noam Rathaus, Mike Jang
tags: source code analysis, static code analysis, tools
permalink: /Source_Code_Analysis_Tools

---

{% include writers.html %}

> [Source code analysis](Static_Code_Analysis) tools, also known as Static Application Security Testing (SAST) Tools, can help you analyze source code or compiled versions of code to help find security flaws.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Source code analysis](Static_Code_Analysis) tools, also known as Static Application Security Testing (SAST) Tools, can help analyze source code or compiled versions of code to help find security flaws.
```

[Source code analysis](Static_Code_Analysis) tools, also referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST) Tools, are designed to analyze source code or compiled versions of code to help find security flaws.
[Source code analysis](Static_Code_Analysis) tools, also known as Static Application Security Testing (SAST) Tools, can help you analyze source code or compiled versions of code to help find security flaws.

> Some tools are starting to move into the IDE. For the types of problems that can be detected during the software development phase itself, this is a powerful phase within the development life cycle to employ such tools, as it provides immediate feedback to the developer on issues they might be introducing into the code during code development itself. This immediate feedback is very useful, especially when compared to finding

Author: I think OWASP does not need to discuss details of the Software Development Life Cycle.

> You can add some SAST tools into your IDE. Such tools can help you detect issues during software development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SAST tools can be added into your IDE. Such tools can help you detect issues during software development.
```

## Strengths and Weaknesses

### Strengths

- Scales well -- can be run on lots of software, and can be run repeatedly (as with nightly builds or continuous integration).

> - Identifies certain well-known vulnerabilities, such as:

Author: I've limited the list to what's known. If the audience is developers, I think "code snippet" is more appropriate than "subsections of lines"

  - Buffer overflows

>   - SQL Injection Flaws

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - SQL injection flaws
```

- Output helps developers, as SAST tools highlight the problematic code, by filename,
  location, line number, and even the affected code snippet.

### Weaknesses

- Difficult to automate searches for many types of security vulnerabilities, including:
  - Authentication problems
  - Access control issues
  - Insecure use of cryptography
  Current SAST tools are limited. They can automatically identify only a relatively
  small percentage of application security flaws.
- High numbers of false positives.

> - Frequently can't find configuration issues, since they are not represented in the code.

Author: ```suggestion
- Frequently unable to find configuration issues, since they are not represented in the code.
```

- Difficult to 'prove' that an identified security issue is an actual vulnerability.
- Many SAST tools have difficulty analyzing code that can't be compiled.
  - Analysts frequently cannot compile code unless they have:
    - Correct libraries
    - Compilation instructions

>     - All required code

Author: I'm not convinced that any of this detail is needed. It's somewhat redundant to "analyzing code that can't be compiled".

## Important Selection Criteria

- Prerequisite: Support your programming language.
- Ability to detect vulnerabilities, based on:
  - The [OWASP Top Ten](/www-project-top-ten/)

>   - Other criteria

Author: You could include examples: 

```suggestion
  - Other criteria such as [OSSTMM](https://www.isecom.org/OSSTMM.3.pdf) and [CHECK](https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/information/check-penetration-testing)
```
